[0012] Add node discovery protocol (#33)
nervosnetwork/rfcs: rfcs/0006-node-discovery/0006-node-discovery.md

---
Number: 6
Category: Informational
Status: Draft
Author: Linfeng Qian / JinYang Jiang
Organization: Nervos Foundation
Created: 2018-11-28
---

# CKB Node Discovery Protocol

> CKB node discovery protocol is mainly the same as [Satoshi Client Node Discovery][0]. The difference are:

Reviewer: > The difference are

The differences are

* Node version is included in `GetNodes` message

> * We use `multiaddr` as node address format (no `/p2p/` field, if has this field will treat as *misbehavior*)

Reviewer: > if has this field will treat as *misbehavior*

It is considered as *misbehavior* to break this rule

## Discovery Methods
### DNS Addresses
When first time startup, if discovery service is needed, local node then issues DNS requests to learn about the addresses of other peer nodes. The client includes a list of host names for DNS services that are seeded. DNS server addresses can be replaced by command line arguments.

### Hard Coded "Seed" Addresses
The client contains hard coded IP addresses that represent ckb nodes. Those addresses only are used when DNS requests all failed. Once the local node has enough addresses (presumably learned from the seed nodes), the client will close seed node connections to avoid overloading those nodes. "Seed" addresses can be replaced by command line arguments.

### Protocol Message
#### `GetNodes` Message
When the following conditions are met, the local node will send a `GetNodes` message:

>   1. It's an outgoing connection (resist [fingerprinting attack][3])

Reviewer 2: use "outbound connection" for consistency

---
Number: 6
Category: Informational
Status: Draft
Author: Linfeng Qian / JinYang Jiang
Organization: Nervos Foundation
Created: 2018-11-28
---

# CKB Node Discovery Protocol

CKB node discovery protocol is mainly the same as [Satoshi Client Node Discovery][0]. The differences are:
* Node version is included in `GetNodes` message
* Send connected node informations with `Nodes` message
* We use `multiaddr` as node address format (no `/p2p/` field, it is considered as *misbehavior* to break this rule)

## Discovery Methods
### DNS Addresses

> When first time startup, if discovery service is needed, local node then issues DNS requests to learn about the addresses of other peer nodes. The client includes a list of host names for DNS services that are seeded. DNS server addresses can be replaced by command line arguments.

Author: I think [command-line arguments](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Command-line_argument_parsing) is the idiomatic word.

> When first time startup, if discovery service is needed, local node then issues DNS requests to learn about the addresses of other peer nodes. The client includes a list of host names for DNS services that are seeded. DNS server addresses can be replaced by command line arguments.

Author: From bitcoin wiki:
> Upon startup, if peer node discovery is needed, the client then issues DNS requests to learn about the addresses of other peer nodes. The client includes a list of host names for DNS services that are seeded.

We send many DNS requests to [several](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/blob/0.17/src/chainparams.cpp#L132-L138) servers.

> When first time startup, if discovery service is needed, local node then issues DNS requests to learn about the addresses of other peer nodes. The client includes a list of host names for DNS services that are seeded. DNS server addresses can be replaced by command line arguments.

Reviewer 3: These two words are similar and they are both right here actually. The word 'parameter' is used especially for computer terms so I thought this one is more accurate. If the word 'argument' is your idiomatic word, just use it and you could ignore the fix if there is the same problem.

### Hard Coded "Seed" Addresses

> The client contains hard coded IP addresses that represent ckb nodes. Those addresses only are used when DNS requests all failed. Once the local node has enough addresses (presumably learned from the seed nodes), the client will close seed node connections to avoid overloading those nodes. "Seed" addresses can be replaced by command line arguments.

Author: `Connection` is a tech concept, we `close` a connection.

### Protocol Message
#### `GetNodes` Message
When the following conditions are met, the local node will send a `GetNodes` message:

>   1. It's an outbound connection (resist [fingerprinting attack][3])

Author: `outbound connection` is a terminology.

  2. The other node's version must bigger than a preset value
  3. Local node has less than 1000 `Node` information 

#### `Nodes` Message

> When client received a `GetNodes` message, if this is the first time received `GetNodes` message and from an inbound connection, local node will respond with a `Nodes` message, the `announce` field is `false`. When a timeout triggered local node will send all connected `Node` information in `Nodes` message to all connected nodes, the `announce` is `true`. When local node received a `Nodes` message and it's `announce` is `true`, local node will relay those [routable][1] addresses.

Author: `relay` is also a terminology.

The length of `addresses` field in every `Node` in `Nodes` message must less than `3`.

## Resist Typical Attacks
### Eclipse attack

> Every 2 minutes random choose an address from PeerStore to connect. The goal is increasing the tired address list.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Choose an address randomly from PeerStore to connect and break every 2 minutes. The goal is to increase the list of addresses that have been tried.
```

### fingerprinting attack
[Related paper][3]

> `GetNodes` can only send to an outbound connection.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Only the node that initiates the connection can send a `GetNodes` message.
```
